1. open virtual box ---> start vagrant default
   
   Go to putty login : 192.168.33.10  
   user name : vagrant password : vagrant

2. install winscp application

   Go to Winscp login : 192.168.33.10  user name : vagrant password : vagrant

   copy the jenkins.war file to  192.168.33.10 mechine

    (OR)

   wget https://prodjenkinsreleases.blob.core.windows.net/redhat-stable/jenkins-2.150.1-1.1.noarch.rpm


3. Go to putty 192.168.33.10 machine

   switch to root 
   run commands
   #sudo su 
   
   #yum install java-1.8.0-openjdk -y
   
   #java -version
   
   #which java  
   
   #export JAVA_HOME=/bin/java
   
   #echo $JAVA_HOME
   
   go to browser download  jenkins.war file from jenkins.io ---site
   
   click on download --- Generic Java package (.war)[ http://mirrors.jenkins.io/war-stable/latest/jenkins.war ]
   
   #cd /opt
   
   #wget http://mirrors.jenkins.io/war-stable/latest/jenkins.war

   #java -jar jenkins.war

    Go to browser  http://hostipadress:8080
	
	Go to Linux machine
	
	#cat /root/.jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword
    
	copy the password
	
	Go to browser paste the password
	
	click on Install suggested plugins

    Create First Admin user	
	
	 User name Admin
	 password  admin
	 
	 Continue  as admin
	 
	 
Home Directory of Jenkins:

What is Home Directory of jenkins ?
  
  It is a folder/dircetory/place where all the configuration of jenkins server will store.
  The default location of jenkins home directory is users_home/.jenkins
  if the user is root then jenkins home is :/root/.jenkins
  Let suppose user is ec2-user then jenkins home is: /home/ec2-user/.jenkins
 
changing default Home directory of jenkins:

two ways:
   
    1.After starting jenkins
	2.Before starting jenkins
	
User defined jenkins home directory is with predefined shell variable called
JENKINS_HOME






How to create a job in jenkins

My job is auto deployment with jenkins

Automatically build and deploy an application on application
server by usinng jenkins:
Developers

Go to mange jenkins

jenkins -- global tool configuration



scm:
    https://github.com/PythonAwsBoto3/webapp.git
	
	
	java -jar jenkins.war --http Port 8090
	
	
	program.xml jenkins.xml --   edit port number 
	
	
	
	
	
what is jenkins ? 

jenkins is an Leading open-source automation tool written in java with plugins built for Continuous Integration (CI) ,Continuous delivery (CD) 
and deployment purpose in software development.


What is Continuous integration, Continuous Delivery and Continuous deployment ?
It is a software development practice in which we will automatically build , 
test and deploy software projects every time whenever a developer pushes code change to the repository 


Continuous integration
continuous integration is nothing but part of pulling the code  from the repository building application with help of build tools
the processes of code changes in the repository and build the application automatically  is called continuous integration

Continuous Integration is a development practice that requires developers to integrate code into a shared repository at regular intervals.

why need continuous integration is to devops
this concept was  meant to remove the problem of finding later occurrence of issues in the build life-cycle.
ci requires the developers to have frequent builds the common practice is that whenever a code commit occurs a build should be trigged.


without continuous integration what will happen
so without continuous integration what happens is software basically currently working on something development so you are doing 
the dev 

Continuous Delivery
Along with continuous integration if we are able deploy the application in the Test environment 
It(what ever the package we are created ) is ready to move into the production environment but we are not going to deploy the application on the production environment
Deploying the product to quality team continuously with approval this not automatic process.  


Continuous deployment
once if the deployment process  and testing process over on test environment then  if we are able to deploy the application in the production environment  
this entire process called  continuous deployment 
from the change in the code  if we automatically deploy the application on after the testing on test environment if it is success then we deploy the code into production environment 
this entire process automatic process that is called deployment
Deploying the product to customers continuously without approval this automatic process
	
Continuous integration, Continuous Delivery and Continuous deployment
a developer develop the code  After develop the code he will push the code in to the repository git or svn  or any version control system
build team pull the code from this repository and they will build the application using  with tool like ant or maven
Along with continuous integration if we are able deploy the application in the Test environment 
It is ready to move into the production environment but we are not going to deploy the application on the production environment

 
Developer check their source code into repo
Jenkins will pick up the changed source code and trigger a build and run any test if required.
The build output will be available in the Jenkins dashboards. Automatic notification can also sent back to the developer.
so, Jenkins is connected to the version control system, build tool , test and production environments, quality analysis tool, testing automation tool etc..



Advantages of Jenkins :-

It is an open source tool with great community support
It is easy to install.
it has 1000+ plug-ins to ease your work. If a plug-in does not exist ,you can code it and share with the community
it is free of cost.
it is built with java and hence, it is portable to all the major platforms 
